README.md, before:

# Laravel Boost Custom CodeEnvironment for PhpStorm with GitHub Copilot plugin

[![tests](https://github.com/invokable/laravel-boost-phpstorm-copilot/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/invokable/laravel-boost-phpstorm-copilot/actions/workflows/tests.yml)

[![Ask DeepWiki](https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/invokable/laravel-boost-phpstorm-copilot)

## Requirements
- PHP >= 8.3
- Laravel >= 12.x
- [Laravel Boost](https://github.com/laravel/boost) >= 1.7
- [GitHub Copilot plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/17718-github-copilot) installed in PhpStorm

## Supported Platforms
- macOS
- Windows (Native Windows)
- Linux

### Laravel Sail

It also supports Laravel Sail. Before use, start it with `vendor/bin/sail up -d`.

### WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux)

This package supports WSL environments where PhpStorm runs on native Windows and PHP runs in WSL. This is a common development setup that provides Windows IDE features with Linux development environment.

> **Note**: "Remote development" running PhpStorm within WSL is not supported.

#### Requirements for WSL
- `wslu` package must be installed in WSL
- Check if installed: `wslvar -v`
- Install if needed: `sudo apt install wslu`

<details>
<summary>How it works</summary>

1. **Detection**: Automatically detects WSL environment by checking `WSL_DISTRO_NAME` environment variable
2. **Username Resolution**: Uses `wslvar USERNAME` to get Windows username (WSL and Windows usernames may differ)
3. **File Writing**: Writes MCP config to Windows side via PowerShell commands
   - Creates temporary file in Windows `%TEMP%` directory
   - Uses Base64 encoding to safely transfer JSON content
   - Copies to final location: `%LOCALAPPDATA%\github-copilot\intellij\mcp.json`
4. **Path Handling**: Converts WSL paths to Windows paths for absolute command and artisan paths
</details>

<details>
<summary>Troubleshooting WSL</summary>

- Ensure `wslu` is installed and `wslvar` command works
- Check that PowerShell is accessible from WSL with `powershell.exe -Command "Write-Output 'test'"`
- Verify Windows username with `wslvar USERNAME`
- If MCP config file is not created, check Windows directory permissions
- Ensure your home directory is on the C drive
</details>

#### Recommendation for WSL
Consider using [laravel-boost-copilot-cli](https://github.com/invokable/laravel-boost-copilot-cli), which allows you to use a project-level MCP configuration file.

### Testbench for Package Developers

Not supported. Please use [laravel-boost-copilot-cli](https://github.com/invokable/laravel-boost-copilot-cli) instead.

## Installation

```shell
composer require revolution/laravel-boost-phpstorm-copilot --dev
```

## Usage

When you run the Laravel Boost installation command within your Laravel project, you'll see a `PhpStorm with GitHub Copilot` item added to the list. Select it to generate MCP config file. To generate `.github/copilot-instructions.md`, also select the boost standard `GitHub Copilot`.

```shell
php artisan boost:install
```

> **Note**: **DO NOT** select `PhpStorm`, it's actually `PhpStorm Junie`

### Important
With PhpStorm and GitHub Copilot plugin, the MCP configuration file is stored in a system-wide location. Therefore, you need to run the `boost:update` command to update the configuration file whenever you switch Laravel projects. The configuration file contains the absolute path to your Laravel project.

```shell
php artisan boost:update
```

### MCP Configuration File Location by OS
- macOS, Linux: `~/.config/github-copilot/intellij/mcp.json`
- Windows: `%LOCALAPPDATA%\\github-copilot\\intellij\\mcp.json`

## License
MIT

Commit message:

Update WSL config path resolution to use LOCALAPPDATA
Replaces Windows username-based path resolution with LOCALAPPDATA via wslvar for improved reliability. Updates documentation and code to reflect this change, ensuring correct file paths for MCP config and temp files in WSL environments.

README.md, after:

# Laravel Boost Custom CodeEnvironment for PhpStorm with GitHub Copilot plugin

[![tests](https://github.com/invokable/laravel-boost-phpstorm-copilot/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/invokable/laravel-boost-phpstorm-copilot/actions/workflows/tests.yml)

[![Ask DeepWiki](https://deepwiki.com/badge.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/invokable/laravel-boost-phpstorm-copilot)

## Requirements
- PHP >= 8.3
- Laravel >= 12.x
- [Laravel Boost](https://github.com/laravel/boost) >= 1.7
- [GitHub Copilot plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/17718-github-copilot) installed in PhpStorm

## Supported Platforms
- macOS
- Windows (Native Windows)
- Linux

### Laravel Sail

It also supports Laravel Sail. Before use, start it with `vendor/bin/sail up -d`.

### WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux)

This package supports WSL environments where PhpStorm runs on native Windows and PHP runs in WSL. This is a common development setup that provides Windows IDE features with Linux development environment.

> **Note**: "Remote development" running PhpStorm within WSL is not supported.

#### Requirements for WSL
- `wslu` package must be installed in WSL
- Check if installed: `wslvar -v`
- Install if needed: `sudo apt install wslu`
- Ensure your user profile is on the C drive (default location)

<details>
<summary>How it works</summary>

1. **Detection**: Automatically detects WSL environment by checking `WSL_DISTRO_NAME` environment variable
2. **Path Resolution**: Uses `wslvar LOCALAPPDATA` to get Windows AppData\Local path (e.g., `C:\Users\YourUsername\AppData\Local`)
3. **File Writing**: Writes MCP config to Windows side via PowerShell commands
   - Creates temporary file in Windows `%TEMP%` directory
   - Uses Base64 encoding to safely transfer JSON content
   - Copies to final location: `%LOCALAPPDATA%\github-copilot\intellij\mcp.json`
4. **Path Handling**: Converts WSL paths to Windows paths for absolute command and artisan paths
</details>

<details>
<summary>Troubleshooting WSL</summary>

- Ensure `wslu` is installed and `wslvar` command works
- Check that PowerShell is accessible from WSL with `powershell.exe -Command "Write-Output 'test'"`
- Verify Windows LOCALAPPDATA path with `wslvar LOCALAPPDATA` (should return `C:\Users\YourUsername\AppData\Local`)
- If MCP config file is not created, check Windows directory permissions
- Ensure your user profile is on the C drive (default location)
</details>

#### Recommendation for WSL
Consider using [laravel-boost-copilot-cli](https://github.com/invokable/laravel-boost-copilot-cli), which allows you to use a project-level MCP configuration file.

### Testbench for Package Developers

Not supported. Please use [laravel-boost-copilot-cli](https://github.com/invokable/laravel-boost-copilot-cli) instead.

## Installation

```shell
composer require revolution/laravel-boost-phpstorm-copilot --dev
```

## Usage

When you run the Laravel Boost installation command within your Laravel project, you'll see a `PhpStorm with GitHub Copilot` item added to the list. Select it to generate MCP config file. To generate `.github/copilot-instructions.md`, also select the boost standard `GitHub Copilot`.

```shell
php artisan boost:install
```

> **Note**: **DO NOT** select `PhpStorm`, it's actually `PhpStorm Junie`

### Important
With PhpStorm and GitHub Copilot plugin, the MCP configuration file is stored in a system-wide location. Therefore, you need to run the `boost:update` command to update the configuration file whenever you switch Laravel projects. The configuration file contains the absolute path to your Laravel project.

```shell
php artisan boost:update
```

### MCP Configuration File Location by OS
- macOS, Linux: `~/.config/github-copilot/intellij/mcp.json`
- Windows: `%LOCALAPPDATA%\\github-copilot\\intellij\\mcp.json`

## License
MIT
